This update... This update changes everything. It- well, I'll let it speak for itself.

+ New dimension, the Hub. Make a portal frame out of Netherite blocks and light it on fire to create a portal to the Hub. It is a small room filled with portal frames, all of which are empty except for three. There is an altar in the center of the room with a skylight above it. The three opened portals are to the Overworld, the Nether, and the End, one of which you just walked out of to get here. The first step to activating the portals is beating the game. Defeat the bosses. Secure the dragon egg and the Nether Star. Place the egg in the empty space in the center of the altar, and secure it with a box of Netherite blocks. Surround these Netherite blocks with a band of End stone, a band of Netherrack, and a band of cobblestone. On top of the box, place a square of emerald blocks, and place the beacon on top. The world begins to shake. The beacon fires off a series of blasts that reach the unmoving moon visible through the skylight. The moon shatters into hundreds of pieces, and they begin to fall as the beacon shuts down. The ceiling is destroyed by exploding moon rocks. Once they get through the ceiling, they destroy the three open portals. You can't run away. You need to survive your hardest challenge yet. When the onslaught is over, the beacon lights up again. The beam slowly begins to cycle colors through the entire spectrum, and it is speeding up. More beams descend from the sky, and the portals begin to light up again.

All of them.

Congratulations, Player of Games.



Welcome to The Next Level.





+ Multitudes of new random dimensions, they're all different per-world. Each one is like an individual Buffet world.
+ Buffet mode functionality has been greatly extended. You can now change the daylight cycle (default: 20 minutes), base grass color (default: #00bf1f), gravity (default: 10.0)... Heck, you can even throw in extra suns (default: 1) and moons (default: 1). Also, some of the functions from the old Customized worlds from 1.12 are back! Change the sizes of lakes, the height of sea level, how the ores generate, which structures and biomes do and don't appear... Tons of fun for anyone!