Infinite Power! This update adds lots of fancy Redstone stuff!

(Power unit is joules. J/T is joules per tick.)

+ Power Tools! Faster and stronger versions of normal tools. Power tools do not break! They just run out of power and need a recharge.
	Drill, breaks what the next level pickaxe can. (i.e. Iron drill can break obsidian.) Also works as a shovel!
	Chainsaw, cuts whole trees at once. Does more damage than an axe (and axes already deal more damage than swords).
	Rototiller, acts like a hoe. Don't ask.

+ New wearable, Jetpack. Hold your Jump key to fly, and be sure you have some fuels in your inventory (coal, wood, blaze rods, etc). Gunpowder makes you fly up super fast! Just make sure you don't have TNT in your inventory, the jetpack will explode and take you out with it. If it explodes it won't drop when it kills you, and if you're near any blocks, it'll leave a sizeable crater.
+ New wearables, Armored Jetpacks. Combine a chestplate of any kind with a jetpack of either kind, and it'll give you armor. However, you don't go upwards as fast.
+ New block, Redstone Wire. Acts like Redstone Dust, but it can go up walls. I mean, dude. Come on. You can't tell me you haven't been wanting this for ages.
+ New redstone component, the Rotator. Rotates any block in the direction of its arrows when it receives a redstone signal, can be placed vertically. Right click to change clockwise and counter clockwise. It can rotate any block that is directional (pillars, logs, redstone components, chests, furnaces, etc)!
+ New redstone component, the Clock. Right click to open a menu and set a delay, power it to activate.
+ New block, rotten planks. Stand on it too long, it breaks beneath your feet. Redstone works too, it breaks faster the stronger the signal.
+ Dyed Redstone Lamps. Emits light of the corresponding color.
+ New block set, Pipes. Transfers items like hoppers, but in any direction (with no inventory like the hoppers, though). You can even see the items inside!
	Regular pipes (iron ingot x6, glass x3) (all other pipes are based on this recipe)
	Fast pipes (gold ingots) (good for long-distance transport)
	Extraction pipes (copper ingots) (pulls items from containers like chests/dispensers/furnaces etc at 4 items/sec)
	Routing pipes (one redstone dust in the center) (sends items from multiple sources in one direction)
	Sorting pipes (one diamond in the center and a various dyees in each corner) (sends different items different directions)
	Activate a redstone source next to an extraction pipe to actually make it extract from the chest, dispenser, furnace, etc that it's placed next to. Right click a routing pipe to change where the items in it are supposed to go. Right click a sorting pipe to bring up a menu to select item types to go in each direction.
	You can use hoppers to put items into pipes automatically, just as long as the hopper faces the pipe! No extractor necessary.
+ New redstone component, Nullifier. It acts like a dispenser, you put items in it and give it redstone power, except instead of spitting a random item out, it just deletes it. Erases it. Sends it to /dev/null. Nothing left of it. Be careful with your diamonds!
+ Compressed blocks. Have too many junk blocks? Compress nine into one! Goes up to nine layers deep (387,420,489 blocks in one block) for cobblestone, six layers (531,441 blocks) for everything else. Works with cobblestone, dirt, sand, gravel, and more.
+ New block, Singularity. When placed, is very difficult to pick back up as it sucks you and other nearby entities in and swirls you around. Also sucks up nearby blocks in a much smaller range. Useful for mob farms! To craft it, just use java.lang.IndexOutOfBoundsException cobblestone.
~ For those of you wondering, no. You cannot make a self-sustaining electric furnace with a thermal generator. It can last quite a bit longer, but not forever.
- Removed placeable Redstone Dust, it will be replaced automatically in your worlds with Redstone Wire. (You might end up wanting to rebuild everything anyway, though... Everything can be so much more compact!)
- Removed Herobrine.