Welcome to the End of Hell. This update brings huge expansions to the Nether and the End, as well as something very old and familiar, yet different...

+ New food, Roasted Flesh. Doesn't give you the Hunger debuff. Get it by cooking rotten flesh in a furnace.
+ New tree, Bloodbark. Spawns in the Nether, can be used like any other tree. Wood has a reddish color.
+ New tree, Pearlleaf. Spawns in the End, can be used like any other tree. Wood has a yellowish color, like the End Stone.
+ New enchantment, Magma Touch. Tools with this enchantment auto-smelt mined blocks, at the cost of using slightly more durability. Having Unbreaking II will completely counteract the extra drain. Better get those Mending books ready! A note for shovels... If a shovel has Magma Touch, you will get four bricks instead of four clay balls from a clay block. If a shovel has Silk Touch as well, you will get a Terracotta block instead! 
+ New mob, the Incinerated. A zombie-like creature that appears in the Nether, drops roasted flesh and charcoal on death. Will set whatever it attacks on fire. If it stands still for five seconds, it will set the block it's standing on on fire. Swims in lava like the Drowned swim in water. If it comes into contact with water, it will extinguish into a Husk in a few seconds. If any Zombie, Husk, or Drowned burns to death, it will turn into one of these.
+ New mob, the Corrupted. A zombie-like creature that appears in the End, drops rotten flesh and Enditite Nuggets on death. Is hurt by water, burns in Overworld daylight. When it attacks, it teleports behind you and gives you blindness for 5 seconds.
+ New mob, the Withering Ghast. A larger, faster, darker Ghast whose fireballs leave behind Witherfire when they explode.
+ New mobs, the Magmuardian and Elder Magmuardian. Like regular guardians, but they live in lava. Will take damage in water.
+ New mob, the Pigman. If killed by Zombie Pigmen they turn into more of them, like villagers and zombies. Trades quartz and gold for stuff. Like other Nether mobs, they do not take fire or magma block damage, but they do burn in lava. Has the same drops as Zombie Pigmen, but with raw pork chops instead of roasted flesh. Also has a chance of dropping quartz.
+ New mob, the Burner. It's like the relationship between Zombies and the Incinerated, but this is with Creepers instead. Burners look like creepers made of magma and malice. Some Burners will lob fireballs at you (Note that I said lob, not shoot). When they get close to you, they behave like normal creepers, hissing and exploding. However, when it explodes, it sprays fire in every direction, and leaves no crater.
+ New mob, the Blaster. Like a Creeper that lives in the End, can teleport to you. When it explodes, it will throw you very far. Be careful around the edge of the island!
+ Crafting recipe for the Totem of Undying, takes two Nether Stars, four blocks of gold, two emeralds, and a Wither Skeleton Skull.
+ Crafting recipe for Broken Elytra, seven Phantom Membranes in a leggings pattern. Like normal broken elytra, you need to repair it with more Phantom Membranes in an anvil (You weren't gonna get off THAT easily, getting an Elytra before you even reach the Nether).
+ New item, the Shulker Shot. Shulkers and shulker bullets now have a chance to drop this. Used in brewing, can be thrown and will target and hone in on the nearest mob. Thrown Shulker Shots will have the same effect as ordinary Shulker bullets, Levitation.
+ New block, Witherfire. Looks like an inverted grayscale of normal fire, gives you Wither III while standing in it, but doesn't actually burn. Created by the Withering Ghast's Witherfireballs and the Wither's flying skulls.
+ New blocks, End Dirt and Charred Soil. They generate naturally in their respective dimensions as a top layer on End and Nether Stone, like dirt on stone in the Overworld.
+ New generated structure, the Lava Monument. Like a smaller version of the Ocean Monument with Magmuardians and Elder Magmuardians, and made with nether blocks, and has diamond blocks instead of gold.
+ New generated structure, the Nether Village. Generates like an Overworld village, but with Nether Brick variants, magma blocks, and Glowstone. Inhabited by Pigmen. Also, there's Nether Wart farms instead of wheat farms!
+ New generated structure set, the Rifts. They generate in all dimensions, different versions spawning different mobs. What dimension does it lead to? Look at the ground underneath it and the mobs that spawn. These rifts can be closed by setting off an explosion nearby.
+ New item, Flamestring. Crafted with 1 string and 1 blaze powder.
+ Blaze Bow and Blaze Fisher. Crafted with Flamestring and Blaze Rods instead of string and sticks, the Bow has Flame automatically, and the Fisher lets you fish in lava.
+ New End-exclusive ore, Enditite. Full armor and tool set, more powerful than diamond. Craft tools with blaze rods instead of sticks.
+ New item, the End King's Staff. Use it to collect the Dragon Egg, and later hatch it.
+ New item, the Dragon Saddle. Craft it by surrounding a saddle with Enditite Ingots.
+ New mob, the Pet Dragon. Feed it meat to make it grow bigger, but be careful! It will eventually rebel if it gets big enough (Another Ender Dragon fight in any dimension)! You can ride it if you put on a dragon saddle, left click to shoot a dragon fireball, right click to dash. If you get off midair, it will circle and glide to the ground beside you.
+ New lava fish! Catch them with the Blaze Fisher in lava.
    + Blazeel is used in potions, can be eaten to restore 5 drumsticks of hunger, but it's extra spicy (you get set on fire for less than 30 seconds).
    + Right click with a Ghasting Ray in hand to shoot an explosive fireball! After 8 shots, the fish is depleted and can be eaten. Restores 2 drumsticks and gives regeneration III for 10 seconds when eaten.
    + Wither Skeleton Fish is used in potions and cannot be eaten (it's literally bones, what do you expect).
    + Pigfish can be eaten to restore 4 drumsticks. Basically a cooked pork chop.
    ~ You can also find other things by fishing in lava. Fire-related enchanted books, Mending books, Protection and Blast Protection books, golden swords, gold nuggets and ingots (even a block if you're really lucky), roasted flesh, and Blaze rods.
+ New block, End Cobblestone. Get it by breaking End Stone.
+ New block, Nether Stone. Break it to get Netherrack.
+ New item, Stone Brick. Smelt Smooth Stone in a furnace to get one.
+ New item, End Stone Brick. Smelt Smooth End Stone in a furnace to get one.
+ Granite, Diorite, and Andesite stone bricks. Smelt one of them to get the corresponding stone brick item, normal stone bricks crafting logic applies.
+ Crafting recipe for saddles, just craft a leather helmet with a string and an iron ingot or tripwire hook in the middle.

+ Whole new dimension, the Aether. Yes, similar to the ancient mod, you can use a glowstone portal with a water bucket to get to it, or you can go above Y 256. Generates similarly to the End with floating islands. No super fancy dungeons, though. That's too... I don't know... not Minecraftish?
    + Cirrus, tries to blow you off the islands.
    + Cumulus, tries to drop acid rain on you.
    + Cumulonimbus, tries to strike you with lightning.
    + Evaporated, another zombie in the mix, but ghost-like. Can fly, but not through blocks. The Vexes have already taken care of that department...
    + Cloud/winged variants of some passive Overworld mobs that can float.
    + Aether-exclusive ore, Ambrosium, which drops shards when mined. Make special torches that work in these cold thin-atmosphere conditions, and use it as furnace fuel up here. Ambrosuim blocks emit light like glowstone.
    + New food, Ambrosia. The favorite food of the gods, cook an Ambrosium Shard in a furnace in the Aether to get it. Eat it for an effect like a nerfed golden apple. Trying to cook an Ambrosium Shard anywhere other than the Aether will give you a... random... stone block...?
    + New drink, Nectar. This godly drink gives you Regeneration V for 5 minutes, as well as Instant Health V. So, you'll be fully restored and quickly regenerate if you're to take damage afterward. Brew an Ambrosium Block with Regeneration II potions to get some! It takes a lot of Blaze Powder fuel to brew it.
    + New tree, Cloudwood. Spawns in the Aether, can be used like any other tree. Wood has a bluish color to it.
    + Cloud blocks. You can see them no matter what your render distance is set to, previous versions' non-functional aesthetic clouds no longer exist. If you fall on white clouds, you will slowly sink through out the other side, though not as slowly as cobwebs. If you fall on storm clouds, you will stay on top and receive an insane jump boost, as if your feet got supercharged by the electricity crackling through the cloud.
    ~ All regular ores spawn up here alongside the Ambrosium, except for coal and diamond.
    ~ Grass and leaves are bluish.
    ~ No more clouds, cloud blocks instead. Just want to be clear on that.
    ~ Torches and jack-o-lanterns do not work above Y 256, only sea lanterns, ambrosium torches, redstone torches, and glowstone. Fire goes out immediately, burns for normal time if on a forever-burn block (i.e. netherrack, magma).

+ New potion, the Potion of Charred Gills. Brewed with a Blazeel, it gives you Fire Resistance and Water Breathing.
+ New potion, the Potion of Weightlessness. Brewed with Ambrosium, it gives you Jump Boost and Slow Falling.
+ New potion, the Potion of Levitation. Brewed with a Shulker Shot, it gives you Levitation (duh)
+ New potion, the Potion of Withering. Brewed with a Wither Skeleton Fish, and I bet you can't guess what it gives you.
~ Remember the advancement when you defeat the Ender Dragon, "Free the End"? There's a very good reason it's called that. All of the following events happen when there is no Ender Dragon.
    ~ Endermen and Phantoms are completely passive and have a different texture.           ~ Endermen don't attack even if you look them straight in the eyes.
    ~ Endermen in all dimensions bring gifts. Overworld and Nether: Iron, redstone, and diamond blocks. End: Enditite blocks. Aether: Ambrosium blocks. Sometimes they bring food.
    ~ Endermen may try to hug you. Let them.
    ~ Endermen make happier sounds than their normal distorted grunts (well, we hear them as grunts).
    ~ Phantoms will let you hang on to them by right clicking, although they may sometimes just involuntarily pick you up. No speed control, just look around to steer. The Phantom will automatically grant you Slow Falling until you hit the ground.
    ~ Phantoms spawn whenever, wherever, independent of how long ago you last slept, and do not disappear during the day.

~ Bedrock is now two jagged sheets with random holes, one sheet between the Overworld and Nether, the other between the Nether and End. The Nether/End sheet sometimes isn't there, explanation towards the bottom.
~ Phantoms no longer burn in the daylight, they just kinda... ...disperse.
~ The Wither now spawns naturally in the Nether in the Soul Sand Deserts, although it's pretty rare. Be careful!
~ Ghasts come in various sizes now.
~ All mobs that drop rotten flesh will drop roasted flesh if they die while burning.
~ End Stone is retextured to look like recolored Overworld stone, old End Stone texture is now on End Cobblestone.
~ Netherrack now looks like red cobblestone. It did before, but that was the Minecraft Alpha cobblestone texture.
~ Nether Stone replaces Netherrack in new worlds, but not old ones. Same with old End Stone, now it's just renamed to End Cobblestone.
~ Creepers now spawn in the Nether from portals, like Zombie Pigmen do in the Overworld.
~ Zombie Pigmen now drop roasted flesh, and a chance of a cooked pork chop. Gold drops unchanged.
~ Portal transportation is now instantaneous. No loading times!
~ You can see through Nether and Aether portals, meaning if you look in from the Overworld, you see the Nether or Aether through it and vice versa.
~ End portals behave like Nether portals as mentioned above, but they still have a translucent overlay of the mysterious particles like before.
~ You can actually see when swimming in lava.
~ The dragon island in the End generates at X = 0, Y < -256, and Z = 0.
~ Enditite Pickaxe mines whole veins at once and breaks bedrock at the same speed as a diamond pickaxe on obsidian.
~ Enditite Axe, Pickaxe, and Shovel have automatic Magma Touch. (Automatic charcoal, glass, and ingots!)
~ Enditite Axe and Sword have automatic Fire Aspect II.
~ Ender Dragon no longer destroys blocks it runs into, it actually has to go around them now.
~ New texture for Phantoms, more Ender-looking.
~ Phantoms now appear in the End again, but much less than in the 1.13 snapshots. They do NOT spawn on the dragon island. They spawn more around End Cities.
~ Get to the other dimensions by finding holes in bedrock. Portals are still usable.
~ The Void is now at -512 to accommodate for the Nether and the End.
~ Build limit is now at 512 to accommodate for the Aether.
~ All ores from here on out will be avaliable in both the Nether and the Overworld unless stated otherwise. (Except Enditite)
~ You can now drown in lava.
~ Smelt Nether Stone in a furnace to get a Nether Brick.
~ You can now spawn the Wither with soul sand and wither skulls in the Nether ONLY.
~ When Endermen get angry, their eyes turn red.
~ The Ender Dragon does not try to follow you out of the end.
~ Small versions of every brick type.
~ Remember how I said the End was below the Nether? Well, it depends on the world. Sometimes, it's above the Aether instead, and you can't build below -256.
- You can no longer use Nether portals as a means of fast travel.
- Removed Herobrine...? With so much new complexity, we're not quite sure...
(Note for modders, Enditite is the same as Thermal Expansion's Enderium as far as the Ore Dictionary is concerned.)