More farming makes more food! The way you farm and prepare has been reworked, too!

(Note, a few crafting recipes take cobblestone. Why? Think of it as a grindstone. You'll get the cobblestone back when you use it.)
+ New /gamerule, realisticLiquids. False by default, but if you turn it on, water, lava, etc. will be completely different. Source blocks don't exist. The Millibuckets (mB) unit commonly seen in mods now exists. Put simply, liquids behave like they do in Terraria, but in 3D.
+ New functionality to brewing stands, they can make juice. Juices take no blaze powder, and they cannot have their effects amplified. Instead of redstone dust to extend duration, use sugar to double the time of the primary effect. Basic juices take one fruit and ordinary water bottles.
+ New tool set, Knives. Crafted like a sword, but with only one non-stick item rather than two. Can be used as a weapon, deals less damage than a sword but has a very quick cooldown time.
+ New item, Fertilizer. Combine dirt and bone meal in a crafting table to get 8!
+ New block, Fertile Soil. Put 8 Fertilizer into a block of dirt by right-clicking, and you don't need to worry about tilling it to grow crops. They also grow much faster.
+ New item, Wheat Berries. Harvest wheat to get it. Can be composted.
+ New item, Straw. Harvest wheat to get it. Can be composted.
+ New item, Carrot Greens. Harvest carrots to get it. Can be composted.
+ New item, Beet Greens. Harvest beets to get it. Can be composted.
+ New item, Flour. Put wheat berries and cobblestone in a crafting table to get it!
+ New item, Dough. Put two flour and a bucket of water in a crafting table to get two dough! Bake it to get bread.
+ New item, Pastry Batter. Same crafting recipe as cake used to be. Bake it to get an unfrosted cake.
+ New tree, Cinnamon. Use it like any other tree.
+ New tree, Apple. Use it like any other tree, leaves drop apples.
+ New tree, Lemon. Use it like any other tree, leaves drop lemons.
+ New drink, Lemon Juice. Brew a lemon and water bottles, gives blindness for 2 seconds and nausea for 5 seconds, and haste II for 3 minutes. What? It's sour! What did you expect?
+ New drink, Lemonade. Brew sugar with extended lemon juice, gives regeneration CCLVI for 5 seconds, Health Boost V for 2 minutes, and speed IV for 5 minutes.
+ New drink, Apple juice. Brew an apple and water bottles, gives regeneration III for 5 minutes, speed II for 2 minutes.
+ New items, Bark. Get it by stripping logs, use 9 to make a 6 sided wood block.
+ New item, Dried Cinnamon Bark. Put regular cinnamon bark in a furnace to get it.
+ New item, Ground Cinnamon. Place a piece of cinnamon bark in a crafting table with cobblestone to get 8 ground cinnamon.
+ New crop, Vanilla. Harvest to get vanilla beans.
+ New item, Vanilla Bean. Use it in cooking.
+ New crop, Onion. Gives blindness if eaten raw, can be cooked. Crop looks like the Allium flower.
+ New potion, Potion of Blindness. Brewed with an onion and Awkward Potions, gives blindness for 1 minute. Enhancement-wise, it behaves like Night Vision, Water Breathing, Fire Resistance, etc. in the fact that you can only extend it.
+ New liquid, Saltwater. Find it in the oceans.
+ New ore, Salt. Mine it to get dirty salt.
+ New item, Dirty Salt. Put it in a bucket of freshwater to get a saltwater bucket. You can also right click any form of ice with it to instantly turn it into water (and use up the salt).
+ New item, Saltwater Bucket. Put it in a furnace to get salt, and your bucket back.
+ New item, Freshwater Bucket. Get it from River biomes.
+ New item, Salt. Craft it with a meat item to make it refill an extra drumstick and provide more saturation. You can also use it on ice like dirty salt, though I don't know why you'd want to after you did all that work to clean it.
+ New flower, Marigold. Craft into orange dye.
+ New drink, Mulled Cider. Brew dried cinnamon bark with apple juice to get it. Gives haste II, speed II, regeneration II, and night vision, all for two and a half minutes.
+ New thirst system, works like hunger system but with water drop icons. Drinking freshwater bottles raise it by 5 drops, all potions and juices raise it by 3 drops, and saltwater raises it by 1 drop. Swimming raises it by 0.5 drops every 15 seconds in freshwater, and stops it depleting in saltwater (but doesn't regenerate it either). Depletes faster in hot biomes.

+ New pastries! Craft ingredients with pastry batter to get these. Bake them in a furnace or smoker to get the finished food!
    Cocoa beans for cookie dough,
    Chocolate for brownie dough,
    Cocoa beans AND chocolate for double-chocolate cookie dough,
    Two apples and some ground cinnamon for unbaked apple pie,
    A pumpkin for unbaked pumpkin pie,
    A lemon for lemon square dough,
    Cinnamon and ice for cinnamon roll dough!

+ More kinds of cakes! Put an unfrosted cake, ice, and a listed ingredient to frost a cake.
    Chocolate cake, chocolate.
    Vanilla cake, vanilla bean. (this one looks like the original cake!)
    Lemon cake, lemon juice.
    Carrot cake, carrot.

+ New item, Yeast Bottle. Right click with an empty bottle in the air to have a chance to get some. Different biomes have different yeasts.
+ New item, Bottle of Sourdough Starter. Craft a yeast bottle with a water bottle to get two.
+ New item, Sourdough. Craft a starter bottle with two flour and a water bucket to get two, and get your empty containers back.
+ New food, Sourdough Bread. Put some sourdough in a furnace to get it. The amount it fills you up varies depending on what kind of yeast you used.
+ New item, Bucket of Yogurt. Craft a yeast bottle with a milk bucket to get one, and your bottle back. The amount it fills you up varies depending on what kind of yeast you used.
+ New utility block, Mill. Crafted with two grindstones and wooden planks, it takes more time, but gives more output than using cobblestone in a crafting table to grind things.
+ New food, pumpkin bread. Combine bread dough with a pumpkin to get the dough for it.
+ New food, Caramelized Onions. Cook an onion to get two. Restores just as much as a raw onion, and gives no blindness.
+ New food, Boiled Egg. Cook an egg in a furnace to get it.
+ New block, Rope. Craft 4 ropes with 3 straw in a line! You can right click to place it on the bottom side of a block, or you can throw it upwards until it hits a block, and it will descend as far as it can depending on how much you have in your inventory! You can climb it like you would a ladder or vine, except you have to told your jump key, not your forward key. You can use your forward key if the rope is against a wall.
+ Crafting recipe for cobblestone, nine flint in a square.
+ Crafting recipe for gravel, four flint in a square.
+ Crafting recipe for flint, five dirt and four gravel arranged like TNT gives 4 flint.
~ Suffocating in blocks has been changed. The air meter appears, but it drains twice as fast and Respiration enchantments have little effect. You take damage from the blocks hitting you, but you don't take any more until your air runs out. Then you take damage even faster than before.
~ You now make cookies, bread, and cake by putting their respective dough in a furnace. Same applies with all of the new pastries and breads.
~ Cobblestone now has durability that drains when you use it in food crafting, can be used 64 times before it breaks into two flint. Can be placed like a normal block still.
~ All fish spawn only in saltwater, except for salmon, which can spawn in freshwater. (that's a biology joke)
~ Crafting recipe for sugar changed. You now use one sugar cane and one cobblestone.
~ Beetroot soup renamed to Borscht, now takes three beets, a potato, an onion, and a carrot to craft.
~ Hay bale recipe changed, use straw.
~ Old water replaced with Freshwater.
~ Bottles of saltwater give nausea for a few seconds (have you ever tasted seawater? Nasty stuff).
~ Brewing recipe for water breathing potions changed. You now brew pufferfish with saltwater bottles.
~ Pumpkin pie and numerous other pastries can be placed and eaten.
~ Composters now make Fertilizer, not bone meal.
~ You can no longer harvest crops just by breaking them. You have to right click with a knife. Otherwise, it will just break and drop items like if you tried to harvest it when it wasn't a mature plant.
~ Carrots have a new texture, greens removed.
~ Brewing stands no longer need a Blaze Rod. Use a stick instead!
~ All of what you heard above was true. You can FINALLY get rid of your useless flint, gravel, and dirt, and turn it into the amazing C O B B L E S T O N E.
~ Potions that cannot be amplified, such as night vision and fire resistance, can now be extended a second time. (Instead of 8 minutes, you can make 'em last for 15!)
~ Default /gamerule randomTickSpeed is now 5, so things will grow a liiiiitle bit faster than before. Open the world to LAN and enable cheats to change your old cheats-disabled worlds to this if you want.
- Oak trees no longer drop apples.
- Removed old six-sided wood recipe.
- Removed Alliums.
- Removed Herobrine.